
Docker provides a plethora of commands to manage containers, images, networks, volumes, and more. Here are 40 of the most useful Docker commands:

docker run: Run a command in a new container.
docker build: Build an image from a Dockerfile.
docker pull: Pull an image or a repository from a registry.
docker push: Push an image or a repository to a registry.
docker ps: List running containers.
docker ps -a: List all containers (including stopped ones).
docker images: List all images on the local machine.
docker rm: Remove one or more containers.
docker rmi: Remove one or more images.
docker start: Start one or more stopped containers.
docker stop: Stop one or more running containers.
docker restart: Restart one or more containers.
docker pause: Pause all processes within one or more containers.
docker unpause: Unpause all processes within one or more containers.
docker exec: Run a command in a running container.
docker logs: Fetch the logs of a container.
docker inspect: Display detailed information on one or more containers/images/networks/volumes.
docker network ls: List networks.
docker network create: Create a new network.
docker network inspect: Display detailed information on one or more networks.
docker network connect: Connect a container to a network.
docker network disconnect: Disconnect a container from a network.
docker volume ls: List volumes.
docker volume create: Create a new volume.
docker volume inspect: Display detailed information on one or more volumes.
docker volume rm: Remove one or more volumes.
docker-compose up: Create and start containers defined in a docker-compose.yml.
docker-compose down: Stop and remove containers created by docker-compose up.
docker-compose build: Build or rebuild services defined in a docker-compose.yml.
docker-compose ps: List containers used by the docker-compose.yml.
docker stats: Display a live stream of container resource usage statistics.
docker commit: Create a new image from a container's changes.
docker inspect: Display detailed information on one or more containers/images/networks/volumes.
docker tag: Tag an image into a repository.
docker login: Log in to a Docker registry.
docker logout: Log out from a Docker registry.
docker image prune: Remove unused images.
docker container prune: Remove all stopped containers.
docker system prune: Remove all unused data (containers, networks, images not referenced by any container).
docker version: Display the Docker version information.
